a run-on sentence is a sentence that is
too long many of my students don't know
when to stop their sentence and their
sentence is super long and this is a big
problem in my students writing a run-on
sentence usually has more than one
complete idea and if it has more than
one complete idea you have to be very
very careful okay let's look at some
examples I called my mother she was not
home I called my mother she was not home
this is a run-on sentence now it's not
very long but this is a bad sentence
because in this sentence we have to
complete ideas and this is bad English
well how do we fix a run-on sentence
well it's easy after a complete idea
stop the sentence just write a period
and then start a new sentence it's
really really really easy so let's go
back to that bad example I called my
mother she was not home well stop the
sentence I called my mother period space
she was not home great this is great
this is good English writing now now
another way to fix a run-on sentence is
after your complete idea use a comma and
then we have a space and then we use a
special word we can use and but so or or
okay so again here is the bad example I
called my mother she was not home well
we can fix this with a comma I called my
mother comma space but she was not home
now this is good sentence let's look at
another example
the TV is big Calma it was expensive
this is a run-on sentence now this
sentence has a comma but it doesn't have
one of the special words and but so or
or so remember the first rule how do we
fix run-on sentences after your first
complete idea use a period stop your
sentence and then do a space and then
start your new sentence so the TV is big
stop it was expensive or if you want to
use a comma the TV is big comma so it
was expensive if you'd like to practice
this more click on the link under the
video